[Music]
consider this out of the seven point
seven billion people on this planet five
billion use a cell phone and still so
many of us don't know how we can make
our gadgets serve us as long as they're
designed to is it okay to let the
battery run completely out should you
ever power your phone down should you
take it out of your pocket before doing
laundry well here are some cellphone
do's and don'ts one do turn off
Bluetooth when you aren't using it this
way you'll block unnecessary and
potentially harmful downloads coming
your way and no intruder will manage to
read the data you store in your phone to
don't expose your smartphone to the
elements not only rain snow or any kind
of moisture and yeah take it out of your
pocket before doing laundry now cold and
heat are just as bad gadgets start
wigging out when the temperature drops
below minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit heat
is even worse if your device has been
lying in the Sun or somewhere where the
temperature is 113 degrees or higher who
it might refuse to work properly even
worse this damage could be permanent
three do encrypt all sensitive and
personal information you have on your
phone not all devices come with this
feature but if yours does use it if your
phone gets stolen or lost nobody will be
able to access personal data stored on
your gadget
for don't use cheap or non original
chargers even if it doesn't do anything
bad to your device the charging won't be
stable and fast plus to produce cheap
charger cables they take a small gauge
wire that breaks much more easily than
the manufacturer approved ones five do
clean your phone's charging port and the
charging cable regularly during usage
loads of grime and dust gathers on the
charging pins which results in slow
charging and a poorer connection if used
carefully a wooden toothpick will
effectively remove dirt from the
charging port and to clean the cables
pins you can use a damp not soaked q-tip
6 don't ignore a malware threat it's a
common misconception that viruses are
only dangers for desktops and laptops
but smartphone malware can steal your
personal data and even track your
location how rude it's better to avoid
installing any suspicious apps they're
likely to stuff your phone full of
viruses 7 do avoid dropping your smart
phone even if it's in a protective case
you might not see a dented corner or
cracks on the screen but you never know
what the fall has done to the phone's
inside if you're a serial phone driver
any problems you're having with your
device could be because of this 8 don't
use a spray bottle to spritz your phone
directly while cleaning it most smart
phones aren't waterproof if just a
couple of tiny water droplets get inside
the device could be doomed and even if
it doesn't shut down completely some
open parts like the microphone are bound
to stop functioning sure plenty of phone
cleaning kits include a spray bottle but
you're supposed to use it to spritz a
microfiber lint-free cloth not your
gadget directly
ix do charge your smartphone before its
battery drains completely it's not a
problem if you see a zero charge on the
screen once or twice but if it happens
regularly your device is at risk of
serving you for a far shorter time than
it could every phone has a certain
number of charge cycles that's when you
charge the gadget to 100% and then run
it down to zero if you let the battery
run empty every day it'll last for no
more than 400 to 500 days 10 don't
install a battery optimizer they only
remove apps that are running in the
background and clear your phone's cache
which is part of the devices memory that
stores frequently used information but
you can easily do both of these things
on your own and by using a battery
optimizer app you're likely to see
intrusive ads on your screen non-stop
wow I just deleted mine you also finding
yourself guilty of these common phone
no-goes feel free to fess up down at the
comments and there's more to come
number 11 do keep your homescreen as
tidy as possible
I won't argue that live wallpaper sounds
like fun and who wouldn't want all their
apps just to click away but if your
homescreen is cluttered your phone
struggles to load all this stuff in one
place it puts unnecessary stress on the
devices hardware which in turn slows it
down and affects its performance 12
don't cram the memory it won't do
anything serious to your phone but it's
still better to use an SD card or cloud
storage for some apps and all those
photos fill to the brim with data your
smartphone will keep you constantly
frustrated with a lack of free memory
space 13 do update the software if your
phone suggests it it'll only make your
device work better by getting rid of any
bugs just never download software from
sources you aren't sure about if your
intuition doesn't let you down and the
source is shady this can make your phone
shut down or malfunction or worst case
scenario someone can get hold of your
personal data
14 don't keep your phone in your pants
pocket you might forget to put it there
sit down and crush it or throw it in the
laundry that and your body heat will
make your battery run out faster than if
you put the thing in your bag
remember heats no good 15 do turn your
phone off at least once a week after you
do it let the device rest for several
minutes
it needs a vacation too and then switch
it back on again
it helps your phone work faster and more
smoothly prolongs the battery life
empties all the unnecessary stuff from
the memory and prevents unexpected
crashes usually when you close an app it
doesn't really get closed it remains in
an in-between state so that the next
time you need it you can restart it
faster this is eating your phone's
memory and battery and you can only
solve this problem by restarting your
device 16 don't turn your phone off if
its battery is almost empty and you're
planning on powering it back up and a
half an hour instead of conserving some
energy you'll run the battery down
completely the whole process of turning
the device on and off uses way more
power than just switching on airplane
mode if you're only going to use your
phone after a couple of hours or so then
do shut it off it's still the simplest
way to conserve battery 17 don't forget
to clear your phone's cache I bet you
have some apps that are too important to
delete yet you still don't need them
every day you can remove these apps
cache data in the settings this way they
won't need as much space when you aren't
using them and your smart phone will
work faster after such a clean up 18 do
plug your phone in carefully
it's all too easy to blindly jam the
charging cable into the port when you
head to bed but every tiny scratch cut
your phone lifespan down because all
those electrical contacts are much more
sensitive and delicate than you can
imagine
19 don't replace your phone's original
battery with a cheap alternative and if
you take your device to a service center
to have the battery replaced always
check what they put in during the repair
if the new battery
is an original it can not only fail to
work but also shortened your phone's
line 20 do use a screen protector even
if it looks like a useless piece of
fragile glass or plastic such a
protector can keep your phone safe after
all it's an additional layer of defense
which will make a world of difference
should your device fall in a hard floor
or pavement and that's all the phony
device advice I have for you today hey
if you learned something new today then
give the video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other videos
I think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life